README.md, before:

# MDM (Mnemonic Descent Method)

A Tensorflow implementation of the Mnemonic Descent Method.

    Mnemonic Descent Method: A recurrent process applied for end-to-end face alignment
    G. Trigeorgis, P. Snape, M. A. Nicolaou, E. Antonakos, S. Zafeiriou.
    Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision & Pattern Recognition (CVPR'16).
    Las Vegas, NV, USA, June 2016.

# Installation Instructions


## Menpo

We are an avid supporter of the Menpo project (http://www.menpo.org/) which we use
in various ways throughout the implementation.

Please look at the installation instructions at:

    http://www.menpo.org/installation/

## TensorFlow

Follow the installation instructions of Tensorflow at and install it inside the conda enviroment you have created

    https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/get_started/os_setup.html#installing-from-sources

but use 

    git clone git@github.com:trigeorgis/tensorflow.git

as the TensorFlow repo. This is a fork of Tensorflow (#ff75787c) but it includes some
extra C++ ops, such as for the extraction of patches around the landmarks.

# Pretrained models

A pretrained model on 300W train set can be found at: https://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~gt108/theano_mdm.pb

# Training a model
Currently the TensorFlow implementation does not contain the same data augmnetation steps
as we did in the paper, but this will be updated shortly.

    # Activate the conda environment where tf/menpo resides.
    source activate menpo
    
    # Start training
    python mdm_train.py --datasets='databases/lfpw/trainset/*.png:databases/afw/*.jpg:databases/helen/trainset/*.jpg'
    
    # Track the train process and evaluate the current checkpoint against the validation set
    python mdm_eval.py --dataset_path="./databases/ibug/*.jpg" --num_examples=135 --eval_dir=ckpt/eval_ibug  --device='/cpu:0' --checkpoint_dir=$PWD/ckpt/train
    
    python mdm_eval.py --dataset_path="./databases/lfpw/testset/*.png" --num_examples=300 --eval_dir=ckpt/eval_lfpw  --device='/cpu:0' --checkpoint_dir=$PWD/ckpt/train
    
    python mdm_eval.py --dataset_path="./databases/helen/testset/*.jpg" --num_examples=330 --eval_dir=ckpt/eval_helen  --device='/cpu:0' --checkpoint_dir=$PWD/ckpt/train
    
    # Run tensorboard to visualise the results
    tensorboard --logdir==$PWD/ckpt
    
# Updated
Add an test program of MDM, which can be used by

```
python mdm_test.py -i /path/to/image/foder -ie image_extention -b /path/to/bbox/folder -be bbox_extension -o /path/to/output/folder -m th
```

Tested on Ubuntu 14.04 with GTX 960.

# Additional mark
* install conda & menpo
    * Download miniconda from: [Conda](conda.pydata.org)
```
$cd ~/Download
$chmod +x miniconda3.sh
$./miniconda3.sh
$conda craete -n menpo python
$source activate menpo
(menpo)$conda install -c menpo menpoproject
```
* Georges' Tensorflow

    * Install from the source to the conda environment according to the [Tensorflow Instruction](  https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/get_started/os_setup.html#installing-from-sources)
    
```
(menpo)$./configure
(menpo)$bazel build -c opt --config=cuda //tensorflow/tools/pip_package:build_pip_package
(menpo)$bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/pip_package/build_pip_package /tmp/tensorflow_pkg
(menpo)$pip install /tmp/tensorflow_pkg/tensorflow-0.8.0-py2-none-any.whl
```

Commit message:

Fix the bug. Problem with the bounding box.

README.md, after:

# MDM (Mnemonic Descent Method)

A Tensorflow implementation of the Mnemonic Descent Method.

    Mnemonic Descent Method: A recurrent process applied for end-to-end face alignment
    G. Trigeorgis, P. Snape, M. A. Nicolaou, E. Antonakos, S. Zafeiriou.
    Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision & Pattern Recognition (CVPR'16).
    Las Vegas, NV, USA, June 2016.

# Installation Instructions


## Menpo

We are an avid supporter of the Menpo project (http://www.menpo.org/) which we use
in various ways throughout the implementation.

Please look at the installation instructions at:

    http://www.menpo.org/installation/

## TensorFlow

Follow the installation instructions of Tensorflow at and install it inside the conda enviroment you have created

    https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/get_started/os_setup.html#installing-from-sources

but use 

    git clone git@github.com:trigeorgis/tensorflow.git

as the TensorFlow repo. This is a fork of Tensorflow (#ff75787c) but it includes some
extra C++ ops, such as for the extraction of patches around the landmarks.

# Pretrained models

A pretrained model on 300W train set can be found at: https://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~gt108/theano_mdm.pb

# Training a model
Currently the TensorFlow implementation does not contain the same data augmnetation steps
as we did in the paper, but this will be updated shortly.

    # Activate the conda environment where tf/menpo resides.
    source activate menpo
    
    # Start training
    python mdm_train.py --datasets='databases/lfpw/trainset/*.png:databases/afw/*.jpg:databases/helen/trainset/*.jpg'
    
    # Track the train process and evaluate the current checkpoint against the validation set
    python mdm_eval.py --dataset_path="./databases/ibug/*.jpg" --num_examples=135 --eval_dir=ckpt/eval_ibug  --device='/cpu:0' --checkpoint_dir=$PWD/ckpt/train
    
    python mdm_eval.py --dataset_path="./databases/lfpw/testset/*.png" --num_examples=300 --eval_dir=ckpt/eval_lfpw  --device='/cpu:0' --checkpoint_dir=$PWD/ckpt/train
    
    python mdm_eval.py --dataset_path="./databases/helen/testset/*.jpg" --num_examples=330 --eval_dir=ckpt/eval_helen  --device='/cpu:0' --checkpoint_dir=$PWD/ckpt/train
    
    # Run tensorboard to visualise the results
    tensorboard --logdir==$PWD/ckpt
    
# MDM_TEST
Add an test program of MDM, which can be used by

```
python mdm_test.py -i /path/to/image/foder -ie image_extention -b /path/to/bbox/folder -be bbox_extension -o /path/to/output/folder -m theao_mdm.pb
```

Tested on Ubuntu 14.04 with GTX 960.

**The bounding box prepared is (x, y, w, h), the function _read_bbox(path)_ convert this to (y1, x1, y2, x2) that the program used.**

# Additional mark
* install conda & menpo
    * Download miniconda from: [Conda](conda.pydata.org)
```
$cd ~/Download
$chmod +x miniconda3.sh
$./miniconda3.sh
$conda craete -n menpo python
$source activate menpo
(menpo)$conda install -c menpo menpoproject
```
* Georges' Tensorflow

    * Install from the source to the conda environment according to the [Tensorflow Instruction](  https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/get_started/os_setup.html#installing-from-sources)
    
```
(menpo)$./configure
(menpo)$bazel build -c opt --config=cuda //tensorflow/tools/pip_package:build_pip_package
(menpo)$bazel-bin/tensorflow/tools/pip_package/build_pip_package /tmp/tensorflow_pkg
(menpo)$pip install /tmp/tensorflow_pkg/tensorflow-0.8.0-py2-none-any.whl
```
